# credit-risk-classification
Bootcamp Module 20 Challenge

In order to build the machine learning model, the initial data set of financial information was split using the 'train_test_split' function into multiple subcategories in both the predictors (financial information) and the variable (loan status). These subcategories of data allow for the model to learn and be trained from one set of data, while also providing an additional set of data that the model is unfamiliar with to use for analysis of the model's efficacy in predicting the loan status. From there, the training dataset was used to train the machine learning model using the 'LogisticRegression' function. Then using the second dataset, previously unfamiliar to the machine learning model, the model was used to predict the loan status of these additional data points, which was then compared to the actual outcomes. The comparison of the actual outcomes and the predictions from the machine learning model provides insight into the efficacy of the model.

Results
Logistic Regression Model :
Accuracy Score: The weighted average accuracy score for this model is 0.99, meaning the model can make accurate predictions of the loan status 99% of the time given the financial information is provided as input. The weighted accuracy score is appropriate to use in this scenario since the data is not balanced between the two possible outcomes, as there are significantly more 'Healthy Loan' outcomes than 'High-Risk Loan' outcomes.
Precision Score: For the 'Healthy Loans', the precision score is 1.00, meaning the model can accurately predict healthy loans as being healthy loans 100% of the time and there is a low rate of false positives in this case. However, for the 'High-Risk Loans', the precision score is 0.87, meaning that there are more false positives for this outcome, and more loans will be flagged as high-risk when they may actually be healthy loans.
Recall Score: For the 'Healthy Loans', the recall score is 1.00, meaning the model can accurately predict a healthy loan as being healthy 100% of the time even when considering false positives and false negatives. However, the recall score for the 'High-Risk Loans' is 0.95, meaning there are possibilities for false positives for this outcome when considering all of the predicted outcomes. This means that there is more of a possibility for loans to be flagged as 'high-risk' when it may actually be a healthy loan.
